---
layout: post
title: estrange
permalink: /estrange/
my_image: url(/assets/images/estrange/estrange.jpg)
my_color: white
my_size: 120%
glow_color: lightskyblue
date_written: 11/30/2024
---
Y’all, when I think November, I think estrangement. I’ve been estranged from my family for years at this point, and the holidays are often a tough reminder. I’m happy to say it’s so much easier now, 9 years later, partly because I grew so much in that time. I know that intuitively, but I also know that because I recently listened to an EP I wrote at the beginning of my estrangement journey.
This is when I first started finishing songs. Writing music was terrifying at this time- it was an important creative outlet with vulnerability baked into it. But amongst all the perfectionism and self-hatred, the 5 songs that became this EP slipped through the cracks. I’ve never been able to keep a journal, but the music I write does keep my history- and this was history I was willing to share. 
So here I am, years later, looking back on what I was saying and feeling at the beginning of all this. I’m not releasing the original songs because they just don’t vibe with me now, but I did remix them! I don’t think the lyrics tell the whole story, but they sure as hell tell a lot of it.

---

## 1 velvet hammer ((Communication))

My estrangement journey began with a lot of attempts at communication with my family. I was trying to articulate why I was upset even though I only had a fraction of the story and little space or time to figure it out. Aptly, this first track was named after a way of softly communicating tough news. (lyrics are indented in italics)
>*power trip,* 
>*it’s not a vacation if i’m squeezed under your ego*
>>*the velvet hammer oooh (x4)*
>*pressed underneath,*
>*it feels soft until it hits you with the momentum*
>>*the velvet hammer oooh (x4)* <br>
I imagined over and over again how my family would react to what I would say, or email or text. Picturing their facial expression, wondering if I found the impossible phrasing that would make them understand even if they didn’t want too. They would be happy to see me *(it feels soft)* until I spoke my mind *(until it hits you with the momentum)*.<br>
>>*you're the snake that eats itself (x3)* <br>
This part sounds menacing- there’s a sample of this arpeggio in the remix (it’s intense). I’m almost mocking them- but it’s true. It’s Ouroboros. We were all trapped in a cycle that I intended to get out of, that they intended to stay in.  
>*ill leave you on your own* <br>
And so eventually, I learned to leave them alone. I wrote this song before I knew that relationships were a two way street. It would take many years since writing it to learn that lesson. You can say anything, but if they won’t receive it, you won’t get anywhere.
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1052688108/size=small/bgcol=333333/linkcol=e99708/track=3345002167/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://bluesurgeon.bandcamp.com/album/conniption-20">conniption 2.0 by Blue Surgeon</a></iframe>
<br>

## 2 tangible confusion ((the human body))

The process of estrangement gave me chronic nausea. It’s like a switch flipped one day- once there was an escape, my body waved the red flag as best it could so I would understand what I needed to do. And frankly, it worked. However, the nausea was so debilitating it was difficult to *exist* in my body for years even after I started creating distance from my family. 
>*small moments of bliss*
>*satisfying silence*
>*bodies need care*
>*but how can they experience this*
>>*this is how i move through the world*
>>*tangible confusion* <br>
Literally me going “what the fuck is happening to me??” I’m trying to take care of myself but what is happening?!?!?!?!? I went to the ER, I went to a GI doctor, nothing conclusive and nothing solid enough to even put my hopes in besides ~anxiety~.<br>
>*experience new things in this form* 
>*in this shell*
>*a case for a whole range of feelings*
>*i need an explanation*
>*is there one?*
>>*this is how i move through the world*
>>*tangible confusion* <br>
I knew inherently that there were other ways of being. It was a time in my life where I realized not everyone was dealt the same hand as me. I felt isolated from myself and others. I didn’t know how to explain this to anyone. I thought that I wasn’t trying hard enough to be normal. <br>
>*this is so weird*
>*gonna be in this same body may entire life*<br>
First of all, yes bodies are weird but our bodies change. Like I know what I mean here, but I got new cells, I got a brain with a developed frontal lobe, I have new wisdom and understanding for why this chronic nausea developed, and since going no-contact, it’s nearly fully subsided. If you told me back then that I would be thanking my body for this signal years later, I’d be terrified and confused. It was a harrowing experience. I couldn’t enjoy anything anymore except the smallest moments. Any split second away from the nausea was a godsend. But 9 years later, I stand today very grateful.
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1052688108/size=small/bgcol=333333/linkcol=e99708/track=752494025/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://bluesurgeon.bandcamp.com/album/conniption-20">conniption 2.0 by Blue Surgeon</a></iframe>
<br>

## 3 morbid transformation ((endings))
>*lights flash before my eyes*
>*now im seeing black and white*
>>*morbid transformation (x2)*
>*it’s so dark out here that*
>*it becomes a silhouette*
>>*morbid transformation (x4)*<br>
This is about my relationship with my family dying before my eyes. We obviously had a relationship before, but it was a shadow of what meaningful relationships can be. It wasn’t what I thought it was, what I wanted, or what I needed.<br>
>*you need to show me*
>*so i know it’s real*
>*i want to believe you*
>*but you have to show me*<br>
I wanted my family to act in a way that would make me believe that I didn’t have to start limiting contact. So badly. And I say *show me* because their words didn’t match their actions- there was always something amiss. 
I didn’t know how much was my fault, if I was just killing my familial bonds by myself. or if they refused to participate in saving it. In reality, it was both. I only ‘killed’ the relationship because I couldn’t live with the ways things were. And they, my family, couldn’t or wouldn’t grow to keep me in their lives.
Ironically, this is the funnest remix. 
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1052688108/size=small/bgcol=333333/linkcol=e99708/track=2468451783/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://bluesurgeon.bandcamp.com/album/conniption-20">conniption 2.0 by Blue Surgeon</a></iframe>
<br>

## 4 im out ((authenticity))

I thought that if my family saw my emotional pain, how authentically hurt I was, it would change things. In fact, I was vulnerable to the point of martyring (another lesson), and I never got the reaction I wanted. Maybe they were incapable of providing emotional vulnerability, maybe they chose not to (probably a combo)- regardless, I deserve people in my life that can match my vibe when it matters. 
>*beautiful plastic flower*
>*a park in the middle of a bustling city*
>*graceful abandonment*
>>*i don’t always love it*
>>*but i can hate if i want too*
>>*im out (x3)*<br>
The juxtaposition of real and fake, of emotionally vulnerable and closed-off. And my human right to hate it when people treat me like garbage. <br>
>*doves flying amidst a ceasefire*
>*welcoming the host to their own house*<br>
This one fucks me up. I was learning about myself, learning how to be myself, and they would ignore every change in favor of a more convenient version of me.<br>
>*thoughtless comments on serious things*
>>*i don’t always love it*
>>*but i can hate if i want too*
>>*im out (x3)*
>*am i real yet? am i real to you yet?*
>*am i real to you yet? to you yet*<br>
I believed that with enough time and patience, one day I would be taken seriously. Unfortunately, this is not a guarantee. All of my family relationships were predicated on hope. One day they’ll be different. One day they’ll wake up, change personalities. One day they’ll be able to love me. And maybe, in an abstract way, deep inside, they do love me. However, over time, it became clear that they are incapable of showing love to me in a way I can receive, that is healthy and sustainable. If every act of love comes with 8 caveats and conditions, it doesn’t feel like love. 
But the real beginning of the end was when I realized that if they did do a 180, if they did ‘change personalities overnight’, I wouldn’t be able to accept it. I knew that in my heart, I wouldn’t believe it. Maybe one day, after years of healing, it’s possible for me to reconnect. But for right now,  I’d be too hurt to accept much of anything real from them.
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1052688108/size=small/bgcol=333333/linkcol=e99708/track=1454438428/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://bluesurgeon.bandcamp.com/album/conniption-20">conniption 2.0 by Blue Surgeon</a></iframe>
<br>

## 5 aviator glasses ((hope))
>*with you i feel like im a part of something*
>*the rest didn’t realize id been gone for years*
>*you make me feel like i could build from nothing and be okay*<br>
Sometimes, you meet people that see you. Sometimes you meet people that believe in you. Sometimes you meet people that see and believe in a you that you have no idea about. 
I changed so much that anyone that knew me as a kid was confused. My light was snuffed out so early that when I found it again, my family was confused. I didn’t really meet many parts of me until I was an adult- there were hints and signs, but I thought anything authentic to me, internal to me, was inherently wrong.
I met some people during this time that accepted me in all the mess, all the figuring it out. all the ‘i have no idea but im trying my best’.
They respected the choice I made to cut contact and then believed the context I learned later. Honored my history with grace and compassion, some without even knowing the details. 
They saw me before I saw myself. (cryyyinnggg)<br>
>*just think about the water crashing*
>*there it goes right over my head*
>*i feel the panic coming thrashing*
>*ill never feel quite the same again*
>*i don’t think they’ve recognized me in a long time*<br>
The water was cleansing me, but I felt the panic over and over again. Until I didn’t. 
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 42px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1052688108/size=small/bgcol=333333/linkcol=e99708/track=1214804008/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://bluesurgeon.bandcamp.com/album/conniption-20">conniption 2.0 by Blue Surgeon</a></iframe>

---

I never said what I called the EP. It was called Conniption. 
I meant ‘conniption’ in a temper-tantrum kind of way, and while I’d like to say it was self-referential in a sarcastic way, it wasn’t. But it feels really good to see myself less as a whining baby and more as a grown-adult with autonomy whose wants and needs matter.
I won’t lie. It sucked, and often still does. But it was so worth it. 
For me, estrangement boiled down to one question- can I be myself, continue to become myself, with my family in my life? It was me or them. So I chose me.

<3