---
layout: post
title: faves-vg
permalink: /faves-vg/
my_image: url(/assets/images/faves_vg/faves_vg.png)
my_color: floralwhite
my_size: 120%
glow_color: mediumorchid
date_written: 05/04/2025
---

This post is dedicated to all my favorite video games. There's so many kinds of things I love- books, fashion, music- but I think the one category I'm most prepared to make some declarative list on is video games.  
I just got back into reading with the Wicked Books- for the first time in 8 years since graduating college I can confidently say I love reading. There's a lot of fave books I read years ago that I want to revisit before I declare my love for them in no uncertain terms. 
I don't think I dress *exactly* how I want to- anyone who knows me would be surprised my this- I think something internally is still holding me back. I still dress plenty weird but I still feel like how I envision myself is still a little lost in translation. It's really fun to figure out anyway.
My favorite music is something that I don't feel ready to talk about. 
But video games are something I've been able to enjoy my whole adult life, especially the past 5 years. They quiet my brain in a way that is so helpful when I'm panicked, and distract me when I'm anxious. I've enjoyed and experienced enough of them to feel ready to share my thoughts. 
For anyone curious, I play on the Nintendo Switch; I've always been a sucker for a handheld controller (and I like zelda games).

This should go without saying, but this is all my opinion.

# games I play to chill out
- **Breath of the Wild** -- such a beautiful game, the enviornment itself is calming, and after years of playing I kick ass
- **Tears of the Kingdom** -- another beautiful game (successor to the previous one) with a lot more going on, which means there's variety to what I can do
- **Powerwash Simulator** -- it is what it sounds like
- **Slime Rancher** -- arriving in the desert (towards the end if you've played it) was a spiritual experience

# games I loved from start to finish
- **Neon White** -- a bunch of demons fighting to stay on heaven for a year in a fast paced (deck-building?) fps; I love the characters in the game a lot, especially Mikey
- **Paradise Killer** -- a murder mystery on an island of very hot immortals that tried to create utopia many time only to fail more spectacularly this time, also vaporwave plays in the background
- **Bomb Rush Cyberfunk** -- a remake of Jet Set Radio, insanely cool outfits, music and art, + you get to skateboard in a dreamscape
- **AI: the Somnium Files** -- another murder mystery where you enter people's dreams to find clues, the plot writing is amazing
- **The Messenger** -- turns into a metroidvania half way through, made me laugh out loud multiple times

# games I'm currently playing and enjoying
- **Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night** -- excellent metroidvania, great reward system, exellent replayability and unintentionally(?) funny animations
- **Sundered: Eldritch Edition** -- tough but balanced gameplay, beautiful art (gonna dive deep on this one next post)
- **Monster Hunter: Rise** -- I love fighting with a giant insect and a pogo stick with a knife at the end (insect glaive anyone??)
- **Disco Elysium** -- a unique experience that (I think) is meant to be played in [winter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sjco86ekIlQ#ddg-play)
- **Furi** -- only bosses, teaches you patience, honestly oozes cool

# games that changed me forever
- **Hades** -- what doesn't feel impactful about fighting your way out of the underworld?
- **They Bleed Pixels** -- taught me I could kick ass at games if I spent long enough going at it 
- **Hollow Knight** -- for an animated games full of debatably adorable creatures, it feels so incredibly human

Special shout to the Spyro Trilogy (original PS2 version- if the elders can bend their elbows in the first one I DON'T WANT IT)- this is one beyond category for me. It was my first video game love. 

There are other games of course, maybe I'll update this post over time. But if you enjoy any of the games on the list, let me know! 

I'm releasing a song for the post, Jacuzzi, and a remix I made based on it as well. It's been floating around for a long time, and I'm ready to just release it to the world. 

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 90%; height: 120px; " src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=371524797/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=e99708/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://bluesurgeon.bandcamp.com/album/jacuzzis">jacuzzis by Blue Surgeon</a></iframe>
